--- 
tags:
---

# Getting wealthy vs. staying wealthy

These are two different things. 
**Getting wealthy** requires being risky and optimistic.
**Staying wealthy** requires some sort of paranoia and fear that it can be taken away. It requires the rational acceptance of the fact, that the success is partly because of luck and extraordinary good results are not easily reproducible. Its the ability to be consistent (as related to [[confounding-compounding]]) and be persistent for a long period of time. 

> We assume that tomorrow won't be like yesterday. We can't afford to rest on our laurels. [..] We can't assume that yesterday's success translates into tomorrow's good fortune. - *Micheal Moritz, CEO Sequoia Capital*

Warren Buffet is not only the great investor he is because of great stock decisions and good luck. 
Instead, a big part of it is that 
- he didn't get carried away with debt
- he didn't panic and sell during the 14 recessions he's lived through. 
- He didn't attach himself to one strategy, one wold view, one passing trend
- He didn't rely on others money.
- He survived and let [[confounding-compounding]] work for him. 

One of his investing friends, Rick, was not as patient as lost almost everything in 1974 crash. 

> Charlie and I always knew that we would become incredibly wealthy. We were not in a hurry to get wealthy; we knew it would happen, Rick was just as smart as us, but he was in a hurry. - *Warren Buffet*

When we want to apply the persistence mindset to real world, appreciate three things.
- *More than I want big returns, I want to be financially unbreakable. And that gets me the biggest returns, because then I can make compounding work for me*:
  E.g. cash returns 1% and stock returns 10% every year. Holding cash may seem to be a stupid option. But if holding some cash keeps you from having to sell stocks, it implicitly has a higher return rate
- *Planning is important, but the most important part of every plan on the plan not going according to plan.*
  Plan with an attitude: "If we have 10% return its great, but 4% will do the job as well". **A good plan leaves room for errors**. The more a plan depends of the success of specific elements of it the more fragile it becomes.
- *A barbelled personality - optimistic about the future, but paranoid about what will prevent you from getting to the future - is vital.*
  You have to apply a sensible optimism: believe that the odds are in your favor, and in the end, things work out with a net positive for you, even though in between there have been times with misery and madness.

It is important to keep an long-term optimistic and short-term paranoid mindset at the same time. 

---
References:

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[confounding-compounding]: confounding-compounding.md "Confounding Compounding"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"