--- 
tags:
---

# Luck and Rist - Nothing is as good or as bad as it seems

> Luck and risk are both the reality that every outcome in life is guided by forces other than individual effort.

An Example: Bill Gates was **one in a million** pupils whose high school had the cash and foresight to buy a computer and let the children play with it.

When judging the success of others and your own, don't be foolish to believe that success is solely based on rational good business decisions. People tend to do it, which can be seen in the opposite of success: Failure. When *someone else* fails, we often say "he failed because of this and that bad decision". When *we fail* we have an array of excuses and refer to circumstances that have lead to that outcome, but never do we think that the decision was bad. That is because we have brains that love the easy and simple causal related story instead of nuances and a the not to be controlled influence of luck and risk. It is socially rude to refer to the success fo others as pure luck and demoralizing considering the success of yourself. 

So what to do about identifying the portion of luck, risk and skill when deferring actionable recommendations from the success of others?
> Focus less on specific individuals and case studies and more on broad patterns.

That is because the more extreme the outcome is, the more likely it has a considerable high amount of luck or risk involved. 
And when a decision did not lead to an outcome as good as anticipated, don't be foolish to think that solely the decisions where bad. Sometimes the bad outcome reflects the inevitable influence of luck and risk.

---
References:
[[psychology-of-money]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[psychology-of-money]: psychology-of-money.md "The Psychology of Money"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"