--- 
tags:
---

# Never enough - When rich people do crazy things.

The chapter tells the story of Rajat Gupta who was worth 100 million dollar when exiting as the CEO of Goldman Sachs after being born in a slum in Kolkata. He then committed insider trading which ruined his reputation, freedom and fortune. He had everything and lost everything because he wanted more. 

> To make money they didn't have and didn't need, they risked what they did have and did need. And that's foolish. It is just plain foolish. If you risk something that is important to you for something that is unimportant to you it just does not make any sense.

Some takeaways for managing the psychology with the own wealth:
- **The hardest financial skill is to know when its enough**
  Capitalism is good at generating wealth and envy.
- **The problem lays in social comparison**
  Rookie player earning $500.000 a year < Famous Rookie player earning $12 million a year < Hedge Fond Manager making $340 million a year < Buffet making $3 billion in 2019 < Bezos making $24 billion a year
  There is no end to that game, this battle can hardly be won by anybody.
- **Enough is not too little**
  "enough" is appreciating that having an never ending hunger for more will lead you to the point of regret. 
- **There are many things never worth risking no matter the potential gains**
  Family, Friends, Freedom, Reputation, Happiness

---
References:
[[psychology-of-money]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[psychology-of-money]: psychology-of-money.md "The Psychology of Money"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"