# Save Money

> The only thing that matters, is the only thing you have control over.


Key Points
- *Building wealth has little to do with investment returns or income, but more with saving rates*
  The world not abandoned the oil crisis by finding more oil, but using the oil it found more efficient. It got "energy wealthy" not by having more, but by spending less.
  You do not have control over how much oil you find because thats dependent on geography, politics, money. But you have control over how much you spend. Same is true for money.
- *The value of wealth is relative to what you need*
  There are investors who work 80 hours a week or more to add some tenth of a percentage point to the returns instead of changing the lifestyle which would lead to two or three percentage points and benefit their health.
- *Past a certain level of income, what you need is just what sits below your ego*
  Everybody needs shelter, and food. But after that, you do not need that much. It depends on what you see what others have. One way to increase your savings, is not to increase income, its to increase humility.
- *Your ability to save is more in your control than you think*
  **Less caring what others think of you** > desire less > spend less > save more
- *You don't need a specific reason to save*
  Save for savings sake, to have the [[freedom]] and opportunity of staying in control and decide where to go and what is about to happen later when it actually matters. It will give you the time to think.

Another great insight: 
[[Smartness does not suffice]]

---
[[psychology-of-money]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[freedom]: freedom.md "Freedom"
[Smartness does not suffice]: Smartness does not suffice.md "Smartness does not suffice"
[psychology-of-money]: psychology-of-money.md "The Psychology of Money"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"