--- 
tags:
---

# Tails, you win - You can be wrong half the time and still make a fortune

Key Insight: A few over-performer can balance the crowd of average / bad performer. A few good decisions can make up for a load of bad decisions. Its kind of an exaggerated Pareto-Principle.
Some events on the far end of a distribution of outcomes (long tails) account for the majority of outcome volume.

---

Derived from that, we have to acknowledge that *it is normal that many things fail*. Its almost that many things have to fail so that a few can be big successes. 

Examples:
- Art collectors don't collect art on a personal preference. They collect art like "portfolios" and wait for some unique and "cash cowy" pieces to be in there.
- Russell 3000 index has increased 73 fold in xxx but 40% of companies were a failure. Only 7% performed good and those accounted for the good performance of the index.
- Apple is responsible for 7% of S&P 500s. And the iPhone is accountable for the majority of Apple's income. A tail in the tail. *Tailception*.

This principle of tails can be transferred to other areas:
- Staff: Google hires 0.2% of applicants -> Tail Careers for tail projects
- Movies Hits: Netflix CEO [[Reed Hastings]] once canceled some big productions, and reasoned that they had too many great hits in recent years. He encouraged everyone to take higher risks.
- Investment Behavior: Success depends on how you act and respond to single events (e.g. Dotcom Bubble Burst vs. 10 years of investing before that)

Another great Insight: **Nobody makes great decisions every time**
 
---
References:
[[psychology-of-money]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[Reed Hastings]: ../../personalities/Reed Hastings.md "Reed Hastings"
[psychology-of-money]: psychology-of-money.md "The Psychology of Money"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"