# Wealth is What you Don't See

**Key Insight**: Spending money on things in order for others to see you *have* money, actually makes you *not having* money because you are spending it.

---
This is told with the background of seeing many seemingly rich people in fancy cars. Talking to them often reveals that the car is financed monthly with steady income or bought with a loan. 

> When most people say they want to be a millionaire, what they might actually mean is "i want to spend a million dollars". And that is literally the opposite of being a millionare.

There is a distinction to be made. The distinction between rich and wealthy. 
Rich is income at some point. Someone driving a porsche has to be rich in some way otherwise he could not afford such a car. 
Wealth on the other hand is hidden. It is all the income that is not spend. It is the power of flexibility, options, growth to one day purchase the things you really need.

We are good at learning by example and imitation. Its hard to find someone who is just wealthy and stays wealthy, and you see it and can learn from him. Instead the world is full of rich role models. 

> The world is filled with people who look modest but are actually wealthy and people who look rich who live at razor's edge of insolvency.

---
References
[[psychology-of-money]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[psychology-of-money]: psychology-of-money.md "The Psychology of Money"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"