---
tags:
---

# Shuffle of to Bethlehem

This chapter is about the fact, that not every matter of public discourse is transferable to television. This is shown by example of religion.
Postman draws two conclusions:
- On television, religion is presented in a entertaining fashion. There is nothing that makes up a sacred event, as dogmas, rituals, theology is stripped away for the sake of pleasing the masses. There is no way, religion can be practiced as before. First, the space has to be sacral in some way, specifically equipped to get one in a sacred mood. But television sets are placed in living rooms, kitchens and generally wired to a very secular world view, since behind the klick of a button, another program containing cartoons, advertisement, talk shows wait. There are some elements to religion that appeal to show and spectacle, but they are always wired to some tradition (roman catholics singing rhythmic songs for example) and have the purpose of transferring something intangible, mystical, magical. The spectacle in religious television shows merely serves entertainment.
- This has more to do with television as a medium than with inability of some preachers.

It is not possible to transfer a message from one medium to another and not altering the value and meaning of the message. Everything might be ported to television (like religious practices) but there is the risk, or better, its very likely, that its meaning changes.

> There is no doubt, in other words, that religion can be made entertaining. The question is, by doing so, do we destroy it as an "authentic object of culture"?

Other insights:
[[Religios leaders gave whats needed]]
[[User friendly is what user needs]]
---
References:
[[amusing-outselfes-to-death]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[amusing-outselfes-to-death]: amusing-outselfes-to-death.md "Amusing ourselves to death"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"