---
tags:
---

# The Age of Show Business

Neil Postman starts with a distinction between a medium and a technology. Technology is some sort of apparatus, which comes with some usage constrains embedded in its design.
Medium is the social and intellectual environment the technology generates.

He refers to television as a medium, which transforms how people see the world. They see it in - on average - 3.5 second snippets of moving images, determined to reach emotional satisfaction among the audience, to entertain them.
One could say, that there is nothing bad in entertainment. But postman claims, that entertainment has come the ground truth form of every communication of every topic, be it as far aways from entertaining in the first place as possible. 

> What I am claiming here is not that television is entertaining but that it has made entertainment itself the natural format for the representation of all experiences. Our telefision set keeps us in constant communion with the world, but it does so with a face whose smiling countenance is unalterable. The problem is not that television presents us with entertaining subject matter, but that all subject matter is presented as entertaining which is another issue altogether.

He proofs his point by examining a popular "discussion" panel, from abc network, which was about the serious topic of a potential nuclear holocaust (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PcCLZwU2t34&t=107s). There pane guests got 5 minutes each making his point without referring to a single point another speaker made. There was no "let me think about it and then answer"-way of conducting the discussion. When at the end of a discussion about nuclear holocaust the audience applauds, this is yet another sign of that the show was rather about entertaining in the first place than it was about triggering thoughts and making a point on this serious topic. 

In fact, there is no way of saying "let me think about it" on television because its not entertaining. Every panel discussion is not really a discussion with counter arguments, perspectives, would haves, admitting that one was wrong.
Where this culture can be seen with heavier consequences than in a talk show is when two presidential candidates debate about the future of the nation. Each on has again roughly 5 minutes to make a point without having the chance to elaborate sufficiently on backgrounds, implications, reasons. After such a "debate" the candidates are judged by media and press how many one liners they delivered to smash the opponent, how their speaking performance, confidence, image was. The debates are more treated like boxing matches than actual exchange of thoughts and delivering argumentation.

Another hint Postman gives, is the weird prompt by the newscaster to "join them tomorrow", to see another batch of horror and frightening images of war and death and the weather for the next day. The whole setting of news, implies it exists more for entertainment and fun than for actually to be used.
---
References: 
[[amusing-outselfes-to-death]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[amusing-outselfes-to-death]: amusing-outselfes-to-death.md "Amusing ourselves to death"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"