---
tags:
---


# The Peek-a-Boo World

This chapter describes what brought the change from a typographic minded culture to a culture of amusement.
The advent of two technologies, invention of the telegraph (~1830), invention of the photograph, created something what Postman calls a *pseudo-context* of information.
Only the fact, that Boston and New York could now exchange information in real time, does not say, that they should exchange information, or there even is something they can or should talk about. Newspaper became no more interested in the quality or utility of information, but in the speed and from what distance abroad they can deliver information. 
The "news of the day" where for the first time unnecessary information not actually relevant for peoples life.

> For the first time, we were sent information, which answered no question we had asked, and which, in any case, did not permit the right of reply.

Peoples mindset shifted away from knowing *about* something, which means background, context, implications, towards knowing *of* something.
 The conjunction of an image, which shows a sniped out of context, and a headline, which is a slogan like sniped of text, not nearly capable of conveying complex argumentation, about something that happened on the other side of the nation, created a pseudo context, created a discontinuum one slice after another. 
People had to invent contexts for information, to trick themselves into thinking they actually need the information, for things like crossword puzzles or cocktail parties.
The problem with pseudo-contexts is, that they have no actual use. They serve no problem-solving, no change. They serve mere amusement.

Television enhanced the problem, gave rise to the completely new form and almost solely form of epistemology through instances of image and headlines. Every field of public interest migrated to this new medium.
The problem with television, as Postman sees it, that it not only changes the way we retrieve information mainly, but also how we think about retrieving information.
> Television has achieved the status of "meta-medium" - an instrument, that directs not only our knowledge of the world, but our knowledge *of ways of knowing* the world

Television got so accepted throughout society and culture, that no one questions its origin, technology, ways of working anymore. So much so, that television *became* the culture. [[social-media-is-culture]]

> For countless Americans, seeing, not reading, became the basis of believing

This leads to the objectively received notion, that the world through television is taken for the real one and not for the bizarre one it represents.


Other insights:
- [[Photography is no language]]
---
References:
[[amusing-outselfes-to-death]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[social-media-is-culture]: social-media-is-culture.md "Social Media is culture"
[amusing-outselfes-to-death]: amusing-outselfes-to-death.md "Amusing ourselves to death"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"